Skip to main content
go deploy
AI-102 | Module 5

AI-102 | Module 5
Home
Lab Guide
Microsoft Learn
 Lab Guide
Use the REST API to run vector search queries
In this exercise you'll set up your project, create an index, upload your documents, and run queries.

You'll need the following to successfully this exercise:

The Postman app
An Azure subscription
Azure AI Search service
The Postman sample collection Vector-Search-Quickstart.postman_collection v1.0 json.
Set up your project
First set up your project by carrying out the following steps:

Note the URL and Key from your Cognitive Search service.

Download the Postman sample collection https://github.com/Azure/cognitive-search-vector-pr/tree/main/postman-collection.

Open Postman and import the collection by selecting the Import button and drag and drop the collection folder into the box.

Screenshot

Select the Fork button to create a fork of the collection and add a unique name.

Right-click your collection name and select Edit.

Select the Variables tab and enter the following values using the search service and index names from your Cognitive Search service:

Screenshot

Save your changes by selecting the Save button.

You're ready to send your requests to the Azure Cognitive Search service.

Create an Index
Next, create your index in Postman:

Select PUT Create/Update Index from the side menu.

Update the URL with your search-service-name, index-name and api-version that you noted earlier.

Select the Body tab to see the response.

Set the index-name with your index name value from your URL and select Send.

You should see a status code of type 200 which indicates a successful request.

Upload Documents
There are 108 documents included in the Upload Documents request, each one has a full set of embeddings for the titleVector and contentVector fields.

Select POST Upload Docs from the side menu.

Update the URL with your search-service-name, index-name and api-version as before.

Select the Body tab to see the response and select Send.

You should see a status code of type 200 to show that your request was successful.

Run Queries
Now try running the following queries on the side menu. To do this, make sure to update the URL each time as before and send a request by selecting Send:

Single Vector search
Single Vector search w/Filter
Simple hybrid search
Simple hybrid search w/Filter
Cross-field search
Multi-Query search
Select the Body tab to see the response and view the results.

You should see a status code of type 200 for a successful request.

 07:21:537 hours and 21 minutes remaining on your lab session
Keyboard released from VM
